# Python-BugTrackingToolApp Overview
This is a repository to store code that I wish to show to possible employers. This program is a digital bug tracking tool written in Python.
The user can enter bug reports into the program and view the bug reports currently entered or change the status of the bug report. The program allows you to clear the stored data when re-running the program or re-use it. It also saves it to the JSON file: bugReports.json
 
unlike C# python can be run without a build command, you run this program by typing python BugTrackingTool.py in the terminal.

## Program Features
The method/function get_valid_input makes sure that the code is not empty, only spaces or only numbers for the bug reports and makes you re-enter the input if it has those invalid inputs. Also .lower() is used so that capitalization is not a problem. There is also a function/method to prevent you from typing a title that already exists, re-entering it if you have. 
There is a function(since the code is used multiple times) to find if there is a matching value in the two variables passed to the function.
There is a warning message if the user has not entered any bug reports when typing view bug or change status, or if they entered incorrect titles when choosing which bug report to view or change.
A while loop keeps the program running until the user types exit. 
The program saves the results to the bugReports.json file and there is code to allow the user to reset the bugReports.json file when re-running the program by typing reset, the user can also choose to keep it for the current run of the program by hitting the enter key. Of course this choice does not happen if the file does not yet exist or if its empty. 
## Skills Demonstrated
- Console Application Development
- User Input Handling
- Loops and Conditional Logic
- File handling with JSON
- Basic Debugging Practices
# Files
BugTrackingTool.py
Main program logic for the bug reporting program.
bugReports.json
Example output generated by the program
TroubleShooting.txt
Notes documenting test input, bugs encountered and how they were solved.
README.md
Information and documentation of the program.
## How to Run
1. Open the solution file in Visual Studio, and if the terminal is not open type both ctrl and ` to open it
2. Make sure you are inside the BugTrackingToolProgram folder in the directory, if you are not use cd and type the correct file path until you are.
3. Run the console application by typing python BugTrackingTool.py 
## Example Output
I previously reset the bugReports.json so I ran the program again and entered some new input, the terminal output does not show the output all the time as that would make View Bug redundant, but inside of bugReports.json it is saved as:
[
    {
        "title": "Title1",
        "description": "Description1",
        "severity": "Severity1",
        "status": "Incomplete"
    },
    {
        "title": "Test1",
        "description": "Test2",
        "severity": "Test3",
        "status": "Test4"
    }
]
## Supporting Files
TroubleShooting.txt
README.md
bugReports.json